Good to see you again.
I'm about to explain arguably the two most
important activation functions used in AI.
The rectified linear unit also known as
the railways and the softmax function.
So let's get started.
Before jumping into the softmax function.
I want to talk a little bit about the ReLU
function or rectified linear units.
Apart from the input
neurons which are used as
is each layer first calculates
the weighted sum of its inputs and
adds a bias, then passes the results
into an activation function.
So for the hidden layer you first
calculate Z1 equals W1 times X + B1.
And to get H you pass Z1 into an
activation function which is the rectified
linear unit function ReLU for this layer.
ReLU is a popular general purpose
activation function that only activates
the neuron every some of its
weighted input is positive and
passes through this result.
If that's the case
mathematically ReLU of X where X
is a real number is equal
to the maximum of 0 & X.
You can see the graph for
this function here.
Here's an example for vectors Z1 to
get vector h representing the value of
the hidden layer you
apply the ReLU function.
The rows from Z1 that's our
negative like negative 0.3 and
negative 4.6 become zeros in h.
And the positive values stay as is so for
instance 5.1 stays as 5.1 and
0.2 is still 0.2.
Now, for the output layer you calculate
the weighted sum of the values from
the hidden layer.
And add by it's vector that's W2h
+ b2 which I'll call Z instead of
Z2 in the previous slides for
reasons that will soon become apparent.
You then passes Z into the activation
function which is the softmax function for
this layer.
To get the output vector y hat.
The softmax function works as follows.
Its input is a vector of real numbers
as opposed to ReLU which in its
original form is a function
of a single real number.
It outputs a vector of real numbers in
the interval 0-1 which some up to one and
can be interpreted as
probabilities of exclusive events.
In the case of the continuous
bag of words model.
When you apply softmax to Z, you obtain
an output vector Y hat with V rows
where each row corresponds to a word
of the vocabulary of the corpus.
The values of the vector can be
interpreted as the probability
that the central word, which is what the
models trying to predict is the word that
is assigned to each of the rows.
Mathematically if the input
to softmax is vector Zi
with element Ci with i
ranging from one to V.
And the resulting vector is Y
hat with elements Y hats of
i then Y hat i equals E to the Zi divided
by the sum over J of E to the ZJ.
The exponential transforms all our
inputs to positive numbers and
the divisor normalizes the vector so
that their roles some up to one.
To illustrate softmax with a numerical
example, let's say that Z is equal
to this vector taking the exponential of
these values gives you this vector and
the rows some up to 97899 which will be
the denominator in the softmax function.
You can now get the values of the we had
vector by dividing the previous vector by
the sum of its elements.
So the first element will be 8103 divided
by 97899 which is 0.083.
And similarly for the other rows and
the sum is of course equal to one.
So mapping the rolls to the vocabulary,
you would interpret this output
vector as meaning that given a specific
input context words vector X.
The probability that the central
world is M 0.083 for
because the probability is 0.03 and so on.
Now the highest value in the vector is
0.61 for the row corresponding to happy.
So this would mean that the model is
predicting that the central word is happy.
You'll get to implement both revenue and
softmax function in
this week's assignment.
So you have seen the two functions
described the ReLU function changes
all the negative numbers to zero and
the softmax function allows you to get
a vector of probabilities over k classes
that tells you how likely an example
is to belong to each class.
Of course, the probabilities for
each class have to sum up to one.